# Bluetooth_Smart_Car
Bluetooth Smart Car is a car that is controlled by the data signals send via a Bluetooth enabled device. It is smart because it is operated wirelessly. This embedded system uses Atmega8 microcontroller for controlling the movement of car and processing of various data signals. The signals received by Bluetooth will be of 8 bits which can be interpreted as a character. Internal interrupts can be used for detecting the received bits which are later processed.

This embedded system involves controlling of car based on signals received from a Bluetooth enabled device (mobile phone). The microcontroller must drive the motors according to the signals received. These requirements give rise to the following problems

* A device to receive the Bluetooth signals.
* A method of transmitting these signals from the device to the
microcontroller.
* Driving high voltage motors through a low voltage microcontroller.
* Designing the chassis of the car.

## Design Complexity

* The car chassis need to have a room for 4 DC motors to drive the 4 wheels of the car. Therefore a rectangular chassis is chosen to get a larger wheel base.
* Motors attached to the same side of the chassis are driven through the same logic levels (they are shorted). Thus we have 2 pairs of motors each pair controlling motion of their respective side.
* For forward motion both the motor pairs are given same logic levels.
* For reverse motion both the motor pairs are given same but opposite logic
levels.
* For motion in right direction the motor pair of left side are driven while the
motor pair of right side are at logic 0.
* For motion in left direction the motor pair of right side are driven while the
motor pair of left side are at logic 0.

## Bluetooth Robot Car Controller
Bluetooth Robot Car Controller is an ANDROID mobile application. It gives 8 bit data corresponding to the direction in which the mobile device is tilted. The accelerometer of the mobile device is used for analyses of tilt direction
The app is programmed to send the following 8 bit data

* ‘A’ : Forward Tilt
* ‘B’ : Backward Tilt
* ‘C’ : Left Tilt
* ‘D’ : Right Tilt
* ‘E’ : Not Tilted

## Atmega8
The AVR is a modified Harvard architecture 8-bit RISC single chip microcontroller which was developed by Atmel in 1996. The AVR was one of the first microcontroller families to use on-chip flash memory for program storage, as opposed to one-time programmable ROM, EPROM, or EEPROM used by other microcontrollers at t-he time.

### Features
Atmega8 is an 8bit Atmel AVR Microcontroller. The microcontroller has the following features

* Memory: It has 8 Kb of Flash program memory (10,000 Write/Erase cycles durability), 512 Bytes of EEPROM (100,000 Write/Erase Cycles). 1Kbyte Internal SRAM
* I/O Ports: 23 I/ line can be obtained from three ports; namely Port B, Port C and Port D.
* Interrupts: Two External Interrupt source, located at port D. 19 different interrupt vectors supporting 19 events generated by internal peripherals.
* Timer/Counter: Three Internal Timers are available, two 8 bit, one 16 bit, offering various operating modes and supporting internal or external clocking.
* SPI (Serial Peripheral interface): ATmega8 holds three communication devices integrated. One of them is Serial Peripheral Interface. Four pins are assigned to Atmega8 to implement this scheme of communication.
* USART: One of the most powerful communication solutions is USART and ATmega8 supports both synchronous and asynchronous data transfer schemes. It has three pins assigned for that. In many projects, this module is extensively used for PC-Micro controller communication.
* TWI (Two Wire Interface): Another communication device that is present in ATmega8 is Two Wire Interface. It allows designers to set up a commutation between two devices using just two wires along with a common ground connection, As the TWI output is made by means of open collector outputs, thus external pull up resistors are required to make the circuit.
* Analog Comparator: A comparator module is integrated in the IC that provides comparison facility between two voltages connected to the two inputs of the Analog comparator via External pins attached to the micro controller.
* Analog to Digital Converter: Inbuilt analog to digital converter can convert an analog input signal into digital data of 10bit resolution. For most of the low end application, this much resolution is enough.
